Google Capstone Project-Cyclistic

Business Objective

The finance team at Cyclistic has decided that Members are more profitable that Casuals and advised the marketing team to organise a campaign to convert Casuals to Members.

In order to complete the business task to convert Casuals to Members, I need to provide insight by answering the question "How do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently?"

Insight from analysis

1. Classic Bike is preferred over Electric Bike for both Members and Casuals. The campaign should focus on Classic Bike.

2. The ridership of members rises between 6am and 8am, peaks between 4pm and 6pm and steadily decreases after 7pm. Also, the ridership for members on weekdays is significantly higher than weekend while casuals is higher on weekends.
   
It supports two assumptions:
   
   a. Members ride for commute since the ridership levels peaks during the typical commute time and plummet out of business hours. 
   
   b. Casuals ride for leisure purpose as the ridership in weekend is dramatically higher than weekdays.
   
3. The average duration for Casuals are higher than Members, which is generally between 20 to 30 minutes while Members is only about 10 minutes.

4. The riderships of both casuals and members are dramatically higher between March and June. The average duration is also higher during these months. It indicates that customers prefer to ride in Summer. It could possibly due to the weather.

5. The length of ride for members is relatively consistant across the year. It may be due to the same distance of transit from office to home. Another evidence supports that members ride for commute.

6. Members generally ride in the business area as it is where most the starting and ending locations are while casuals are more close to coastal area. Another strong finding backs that casuals are tourists while members are for commute in the business area.

Summary of Insights

We can conclude that 

1. Casuals tend to ride for leisure and the preferred time is between midday and evening on the weekend in the late spring and early summer (March to June).

2. Members tend to ride for commute and the preferred time is the peak commute hours (8am and 5pm) in the weekdays in the late spring and early summer (March to June).

3. Casuals tend to start and finish their trips next to the coastal area and tourist attractions while members ride in the business area.

Suggestions

- The marketing campaign should be held in the summer to capture the highest level of ridership of casuals and more resources should be spent on coastal area, the most popular starting and ending stations for casuals during weekends.

- Cyclistic should consider a new short-term membership which is valid for weekend to capture casuals who are Chicago resident and rides for leisure in the weekends.

- A summer pass should also be considered to seize the peak in the level of ridership between March and June.

